{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1138\cocoasubrtf230
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww13220\viewh12380\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\qc

\f0\b\fs32 \cf0 Name: Muhammad Shakeel\
Registration No: mc120401241\
Subject: CS601- Data Communication\
Assignment No : 1\
Due Date: Nov 8, 2012
\b0\fs28 \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural

\b\fs32 \cf0 \
Network Topology:
\b0 \

\fs28 \
	Topology refers to the way in which computers and networks of computers are physically or logically connected.\
	Example of topologies are LAN and WAN. In LAN ( Local Area Network) all the devices or computers are connected with other devices or computers in a specific way that is called topology.\
In general network topologies are of two types\
\

\b 1- Physical Topology\
2- Logical Topology
\b0 \
\
\
	Now the physical topology means the placement of computers, networks, devices location and cable installation in physical order. It also includes the layout used to link devices and cables  that are interconnected between the nodes, routers and computers.\
	On the other hand, logical topologies means how the data flows between the network, regardless of its physical structure. A network's logical topology is not necessarily the same as its physical topology.\
	Logical topologies are often associated with MAC (Media Access Control) method and protocols. Logical topologies are dynamically reconfigured by special types of equipment such as routers and switches.\
\
Despite of logical and physical topologies there are eight basic topologies.\
\
1- Bus topology\
2- Star topology\
3- Point to point topology\
4- Ring toplogy\
5- Mesh toplogoy\
6- Tree topology\
7- Hybrid topology\
8- Chain topology\
\

\b 1- Bus Topology:
\b0 \
	In this topology there is a single cable which acts as main supply and all the other networks, devices and computers are connected with this single cable. The source signal moves in the main supply or main cable in both directions and it passes through all the connected devices or nodes to find the destination node in the network. If no device or node if founded across that destination then the data is ignored or destroyed. Alternatively, if the data matches the destination node then the data is accepted. \

\b Advantage
\b0 \
a- Since it contains only one main cable so it is very cheep.\
b- Due to single main supply it is very easy to configure and understand.\

\b Disadvantage:
\b0 \
a- If the single main supply or cable is disconnected then all the nodes or devices in the network are disconnected.\
b- Although it has low cost in its configuration and installation but it costs more for managing the network.\
\

\b 2- Star topology:
\b0 \
In this topology all the nodes are connection in star like physical structure. All the nodes are connected to one single node and making star like structure. This central node is called hub or switch which controls the traffic or data flow over the network. In other way, all the traffic or data passes through the central hub. This hub acts like a single repeater. Star topology considered as most easiest topology to implement and design. \

\b Advantage:
\b0 \
a- It is considered as easiest topology to implement and design.\
b- An advantage of the star topology is the simplicity of adding additional nodes.\

\b Disadvantage:
\b0 \
a- Single disadvantage of star topology is the failure of single hub at the center that can be failure of the whole network.\
\

\b 3- Point to point topology:
\b0 \
In this topology a permanent link exist between two endpoints or devices. This link is dedicated for two devices to communicate between each other. No other device can connect or can take data from these two devices in this topology.\

\b Advantage:
\b0 \
a- Main advantage is that at every time the link or connection is dedicated for these two device to connect.\
b- No other device or network cannot inturrpt. \
c- Easy to manage.\

\b Disadvantage:
\b0 \
a- Due to single dedicated link between two devices its very very costly to implement.\
b- If the link fails connection is lost.\
\

\b 4- Ring toplogy:
\b0 \
In this network topology all the nodes are connected in physical structure like ring. So all the devices are interconnected and one device is connected at most and at least two devices. To share data between two devices the data passes through the whole ring. In this all the devices work as repeaters and no signal is destroyed.\

\b Advantage:
\b0 \
a- Data synchronization is very easy.\
b- Easy to understand and implment.\
c- Implementation is very cheep\

\b Disadvantage:
\b0 \
a- If one of all the devices is disconnected or one link is down for some reason then no data can pass between the network and it fails.\
\

\b 5- Mesh toplogoy:
\b0 \
In this topology all the devices are interconnected with each other making mesh like physical structure. In mesh topology all the devices are connected with all the devices in the network in seperate link. So all the devices has access to all other devices via a dedicated link. So it is also called mesh of point to point topology. \
The number of connection in a full mesh = N(N-1)/2\

\b Advantage:
\b0 \
a- Easy to configure and implement.\
b- Easy to manage.\
c- All the nodes have dedicated link to all the devices.\

\b Disadvantage:
\b0 \
a- Due to all the dedicated links its too much costly to implement.\
\

\b 6- Tree topology:
\b0 \
In this topology a central root is connected to one or more devices that are one level lower in the hierarchy, and that nodes are connected to one or more devices in the network that are one more lower level in the hierarchy. In other words, these nodes make tree like structure where root node acts like network root and all the other nodes act like branches an leaves of  the tree.\

\b Advantage: 
\b0 \
a- It is scalable means secondary nodes allow more nodes to be connected to the central node.\
b- Point to point connection to devices.\
c- Having different levels of the network makes it more manageable.\

\b Disadvantage:
\b0 \
a- Maintenance of the network is great issue in this network.\
b- If the main root which is backbone of the network fails entire network fails.\
\

\b 7- Hybrid topology:
\b0 \
Hybrid topology is combination of one or more topologies in such a way that the resulting network is not exit one of the standards topology. In this topology, two or more networks are connected like tree topology is connected with ring topology and star topology then hybrid networks exist.\

\b Advantage:
\b0 \
a- We can connect different types of network in one network.\

\b Disadvantage:
\b0 \
a- Too much difficult to manage and implement.\
b- Installation need more care. and if not then it can cause whole network filure.\
\

\b 8- Chain topology:
\b0 \
In this topology one computer is connected with other computer in chain and this process is continues to create network chain. Due to chain like structure it is called chain topology. It is also called linear topology. It is similar to ring topology but in this topology endpoint are not connected to each other.\

\b Advantage: 
\b0 \
a- Easy to manage.\
b- Easy to implement.\
c- Each computer works are repeaters so single lost is minimized.\

\b Disadvantage:
\b0 \
a- Single connection or link failure causes whole network to fail.\
\
}